export const meta = {
  title: 'Who am I?',
  description:
    'Hello World! This will be, in my opinion, the very first obligated post that every blog could have...',
  date: '2019-05-23T00:00-06:00',
}

Hello World! :earth_americas: This will be, in my opinion, the very first
obligated post that every blog could have. I will try to introduce myself
briefly and maybe say one or two things that you may not see in the
[About](/about/) page.

<!--more-->

I'm Jorge Gonz√°lez, I'm (at the time of writing this) currently coursing a
_Software Engineering_ degree in Mexico :mexico:. I love to code and play around
with new technologies. Mostly, I've been in the Web development world, learning
about the _Do's_ and _Don'ts_ for both the _Frontend_ development and the
_Backend_ development. I consider my self a _Full-Stack capable developer_.

## TL;DR

I'm not new to the internet, I've been around for quite some time, but this is
technically my first formal presentation to the world, and done in a way that
web archives can keep for history.

## My story

My first approach to technology was when I was around 4-5 years old. I can
remember that my grandfather bought a digital camera, which was, by the time,
only available in English. He taught me how to use it to take photos, and since
he let me play with it almost every day, I discovered how to turn on the Sepia
and B/W filters, and later on, how to record video footage. This was definitely
the biggest turn point in my whole life.

After 2 years, he also bought a Desktop Computer, and requested internet access
from a pretty common Mexican ISP. With that new computer, he taught me to use
Windows Paint, and I got to spend hours _trying_ to draw cars and houses, but as
soon as I got bored, I started exploring the different options, menus and
configurations that I could find in that program, without really knowing what
anything was actually, since I was just starting to learn to read and write in
Spanish.

Some time after mastering my circle painting skills, I discovered that the PC
had more programs than paint that I could actually use without blowing up the
whole system, being those the _File Explorer_ and the _Internet Explorer_. Files
are files, right? But... Internet? Wow, that was new to me... I could go in IE,
and it would open up Google automatically, and if I typed anything with the
keyboard, it would go and search for it in a catalog of items... I remember that
somebody once talked about _Encartas_ for local system dictionary searches, but
Google was way more than that, I could literally type anything, and it would
result in some matches.

And aunt of mine showed me how I could use Google to get some pretty basic
search results in Spanish, so I was able to Google for Power Ranges, Racing and
other random games, as well as to look for _news_. The combination of the high
neoplasticity of a young me, and the power of the internet allowed me to start
accelerating my learning path, starting of by learning to read and write in
English at the same time that I was learning to do so in Spanish, so I was able
to develop my secondary language almost as fast as I was improving my mother
language.

Technological news got my attention, I started learning how to actually use the
Internet, how to make Google searches, how to take advantage of Wikipedia to
make my homework, and also, to use YouTube just to see those Super Saiyan 50
Goku and Vegeta theories.

Now, back to more relevant stuff...

At the age of 10, I asked myself if it was possible for me to build a website
like Google, or like Facebook, just so I could have miscellaneous stuff in there
for other people to watch. So I came across with Jimdo and WordPress, and they
were really great, but wasn't satisfied with the customization options that they
offered me by the time, so I started googling for tutorials that guided you to
make your own Website.

Some years later, I got involved in the PHP world, all because I wanted to write
Minecraft: Pocket Edition (Now known as Bedrock Edition) plugins, and the only
software available at the time was
[PocketMine-MP](https://github.com/PocketMine/PocketMine-MP). I learnt to use
Object-Oriented programming and started developing my very first coding project
(which by the way, was Open Source):
[EssentialsPE](https://github.com/LegendOfMCPE/EssentialsPE). This was an
ambitious project, since I was porting some features from a Java plugin to PHP,
and also, I started learning about code optimization and peer-working, and
thanks to GitHub, I was able to get involved with some other cool developers,
and we created the [LegendsOfMCPE](https://github.com/LegendOfMCPE) (aka LoMCPE)
organization, which aimed to develop plugins for PocketMine-MP.

Actually most of the plugin ideas we had, were not able to see the light of a
stable release, but the ones that did, gained quite some popularity in the
community. We were able to grow a lot and learn one from another. That was the
first time I experienced the phenomena called _globalization_ by myself.

Time passed, most of those _Legends_ that developed plugins started looking to
other life projects, and most of us, started looking toward further developing
our path in the coding world.

If you remember, at the beginning of this post, I was talking about being a
_capable Full-stack developer_, well, my very first introduction to the
_Backend_ land was indeed while programming plugins with the _LoMCPE_
organization, but I also got some a lot of experience since I got a job years
later as a Junior Dev at a _Multiplayer Games Company_. That's where I got lots
of knowledge on project architecture, API optimization and kind of what is
called _Microservices_ for high availability of our services.

My introduction to the _Frontend_ land was indeed with that company, I was one
of the few employees that really liked to work with PHP, since I worked with it
before in some projects, so I was asked to cover the Website developer while he
was away for a week. I remember contacting that developer a week before he went
busy, asking him to help me get familiar with the structure of the Website. To
my surprise, he was actually using a pretty solid PHP Framework, I was expecting
_pure-php_ code, like many tutorials explain for people that just started
programming.

Everything went fine, I was able to know how to modify the Website without
breaking everything up, deploy it and also create modules for connecting with
our game servers and show an (almost) live count of players currently playing in
each of the games we offered.

I left that company a year later, but full of new knowledge.

Nowadays, I'm further developing my coding skills by maintaining some personal
side projects, and working independently for a Nutritional Center, developing
their whole system.

So, this is currently me, but we're just getting started.
